Add documentation for overarching tests in flutter, add skill to help agents figure out where tests go (#185148)
flutter/flutter: docs/contributing/testing/Test-Types-Overview.md

- **Run Locally**: Partially, same requirements as DeviceLab tests.
- **Commands**: See DeviceLab Tests.
- **Speed**: Slow (> 60 seconds).
- **Count**: ~160+ files.

### 6. Analysis and Lint Tests
- **Key Files**:
  - `dev/bots/analyze.dart`: Enforces style and structure rules.
  - `dev/bots/test.dart`: Main test orchestrator.
- **Documentation**: [Running-and-writing-tests.md](docs/contributing/testing/Running-and-writing-tests.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run analysis: `bin/cache/dart-sdk/bin/dart --enable-asserts dev/bots/analyze.dart` (Verified locally, takes > 60 seconds for full run).
- **Speed**: Slow (> 60 seconds) for full execution.

### 7. Package Tests
- **Location**: `packages/*/test/` (excluding `flutter` and `flutter_tools`)
- **Language**: Dart
- **Description**: Tests for support packages like `flutter_test`, `flutter_localizations`, etc.
- **Documentation**: [Running-and-writing-tests.md](docs/contributing/testing/Running-and-writing-tests.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run tests in a package: `bin/flutter test packages/<package_name>/test`
- **Speed**: Fast (< 10 seconds) for individual tests.

### 8. Engine Tests

> - **Location**: `engine/src`

Author: This is wrong.

# Flutter Codebase Test Inventory

This file lists and categorizes the test files found in the Flutter codebase.
Due to the large number of tests (over 6000 files), they are grouped by category and location.

> ## Runtime Length

Reviewer: Is this for individual tests and not LUCI build units?

Author: yes and the speed is there so agents can get an understanding of how long each type of test takes. This is something we who work on it intuitively understand but agents would not.

- **Fast**: < 10 seconds (Unit tests, simple widget tests)
- **Medium**: 10-60 seconds (Complex widget tests, some tool tests)
- **Slow**: > 60 seconds (Integration tests, devicelab tasks, analyze script)

## Groupings

### 1. Framework Tests
- **Location**: `packages/flutter/test/`
- **Language**: Dart
- **Description**: Unit and Widget tests for the Flutter framework.
- **Documentation**:
  - [Running-and-writing-tests.md](Running-and-writing-tests.md)
  - [Writing-a-golden-file-test-for-package-flutter.md](Writing-a-golden-file-test-for-package-flutter.md)
  - [Leak-tracking.md](Leak-tracking.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run all tests in a directory: `bin/flutter test packages/flutter/test/foundation`
  - Run a specific test: `bin/flutter test packages/flutter/test/foundation/assertions_test.dart`

> - **Speed**: Fast (< 10 seconds) for individual tests when environment is working.

Reviewer 2: Is it redundant to say "when environment is working"?

Reviewer 2: Also, the vast majority of individual tests should run in milliseconds, excluding startup time. There are indeed a few long ones that take seconds, though. Not sure what the longest is.

Author: fast is the fastest bucket. Do you think I should have a faster bucket for sub one second? 

for "when the environment is working" I think this came from the agent not having a working environment for other types of tests. Would you like to have the environment part removed?

Reviewer 2: > Do you think I should have a faster bucket for sub one second?

For me as a human reader of this page I would say yes. As a developer I'm interested in the distinction between tests that I can run constantly while I'm doing development versus tests that are meant more as a check before merge. 10 seconds is too slow for the first category, but sub 1 second is about right.

 > Would you like to have the environment part removed?

No big deal for me if it helps the LLMs.

> - **Count**: ~1000+ files.

Reviewer 3: What's the value in listing the count?

Author: Good question. Both the speed and count I am hoping agents can use together as a signal for if they should run one or all of the tets.

### 2. Tool Tests
- **Location**: `packages/flutter_tools/test/`
- **Language**: Dart

> - **Description**: Unit tests for the `flutter` command-line tool.

Reviewer 3: There are also integration tests under this location.

Author: Yeah this directory is hard. What do you think about for the top level I just say this is where the tool tests live then put the testing documentation into packages/flutter_tools. 

@bkonyi fyi

Author: description modified.

- **Documentation**: [README.md](../../../packages/flutter_tools/README.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run general unit tests: `bin/flutter test packages/flutter_tools/test/general.shard`
  - Run a specific test: `bin/flutter test packages/flutter_tools/test/general.shard/base_utils_test.dart`

>   - Run integration tests: `bin/flutter test packages/flutter_tools/test/integration.shard` (Requires `FLUTTER_ROOT` environment variable).

Reviewer 3: Should we list the commands or just point to the docs? I worry about them becoming out of sync.

Reviewer 3: Also some of the commands need to be run in certain directories for the relative pathing to be correct. I have found agents have a hard time with that if it's not explicitly defined.

Author: My goal here was to put the most simple version of the answer in this top line file then to link for the more complicated stuff like how to filter to individual tests. I think every jump makes it less likely that the agent gets the information and this documentation is already likely to be 1-2 jumps away.

- **Speed**: Fast (< 10 seconds) for general shard tests, Medium to Slow for integration tests.
- **Count**: ~500+ files.

### 3. Integration Tests

> - **Location**: `dev/integration_tests/` and `packages/integration_test/`

Reviewer 3: `packages/integration_test/` isn't actually a test, right, that's a Flutter package and falls under the `7. Package Tests` section?

Author: Dang, you are right. If you like the structure in https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/185148/changes#r3102401106 then I think I would remove sub packages except for flutter_tool and describe what test directories exist for any "package" which is defined as a folder with a pubspec.yaml entry.

- **Language**: Dart, Kotlin, C++, etc.
- **Description**: Tests that run on devices or emulators, testing full app behavior.
- **Documentation**:
  - [README.md](../../../dev/integration_tests/README.md)
  - [How-to-write-a-render-speed-test-for-Flutter.md](How-to-write-a-render-speed-test-for-Flutter.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes, but requires a target device or emulator (Android, iOS, or desktop).
- **Commands**:
  - Run an integration test: `bin/flutter test integration_test/foo_test.dart` (Run from the package root).
  - Run a driver test: `flutter drive -t <test> --driver <driver>`

>   - Example: `flutter drive -t lib/keyboard_resize.dart --driver test_driver/keyboard_resize_test.dart` (Run from the specific test directory).

Reviewer 3: This is a little tricky because I think dev/integration_tests are meant to be used with devicelab tests and not all of them will have driver or Flutter integration tests. Some are native app tests. Perhaps instead of a separate section on integration tests directory, add a link to the `dev/integration_tests/README.md` under the Devicelab section?

Author: Open to suggestions. Part of what this documentation shows is how difficult it is to reason about.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, this directory is kind of a catch-all. For example, `dev/integration_tests/widget_preview_scaffold` is just an inflated version of the widget preview scaffold template so we can write unit tests against it.

- **Speed**: Slow (> 60 seconds).

> - **Count**: ~1800+ files in `dev/integration_tests`.

Reviewer: 528 dart files - unless flutter drive looks at more than dart files?

Author: removed

### 4. DeviceLab Tests
- **Location**: `dev/devicelab/`
- **Language**: Dart
- **Description**: Performance and integration tests run in the Flutter DeviceLab.
- **Documentation**:
  - [README.md](../../../dev/devicelab/README.md)
  - [How-to-write-a-memory-test-for-Flutter.md](How-to-write-a-memory-test-for-Flutter.md)
  - [How-to-write-a-render-speed-test-for-Flutter.md](How-to-write-a-render-speed-test-for-Flutter.md)

> - **Run Locally**: Partially. Requires a physical device or emulator and specific environment setup (e.g., `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Run Locally**: Partially. May require a physical device or emulator and specific environment setup (e.g., `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT`).
```

Not all require a device.

- **Documentation**: [Running-and-writing-tests.md](Running-and-writing-tests.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run analysis: `bin/cache/dart-sdk/bin/dart --enable-asserts dev/bots/analyze.dart` (Verified locally, takes > 60 seconds for full run).
- **Speed**: Slow (> 60 seconds) for full execution.

### 7. Package Tests
- **Location**: `packages/*/test/` (excluding `flutter` and `flutter_tools`)
- **Language**: Dart
- **Description**: Tests for support packages like `flutter_test`, `flutter_localizations`, etc.
- **Documentation**: [Running-and-writing-tests.md](Running-and-writing-tests.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes.
- **Commands**:
  - Run tests in a package: `bin/flutter test packages/<package_name>/test`
- **Speed**: Fast (< 10 seconds) for individual tests.

### 8. Engine Tests
- **Location**: `engine/src` (located in the `engine` directory)
- **Language**: C++, Dart, Java, Kotlin, etc.
- **Description**: Tests for the Flutter engine.
- **Documentation**: [Testing-the-engine.md](../../../docs/engine/testing/Testing-the-engine.md)
- **Run Locally**: Yes, but requires the complete Engine development environment (GN, Ninja, etc.).
- **Commands**:

>   - **Using `run_tests.py`**:

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Using `run_tests.py` from `engine/src/flutter`**:
```

>   - **Using `run_tests.py` from `engine/src/flutter`**:

Reviewer: @gaaclarke  - do we have just `et` commands for these tests?

Author: For example I think run_test.py can run java tests but et cannot.

Reviewer 5: I don't think so.  There is magic that exists only in run_tests.py
